In this video, you will learn
to describe various methods of
ensuring effective
access management
to an organizations
computing resources.
So we're going to go
over some key concepts.
Now we're going to talk
about authorization.
Authorization is the process of
allowing somebody to
access a specific object.
There are different type
of criteria.
You could restrict
access by groups,
by time frame or specific dates,
also by physical location
or transaction type.
What this means
basically we can do,
it could allow in this case
subjects or people to access
objects or files or directory
based on specific groups.
For example, the administrator
group will have access
to more data than
for example somebody
on a different group
such as maybe
a financial person in
a different group like
a financial group or
something like that.
You can also restrict
access by time frame
mean from eight to five people
can access deleted files,
but any attempt to
access those files
outside those time frames
will be denied.
Also specific date, let's
say Monday to Friday,
those will be the date that
the people working on set will
be allowed to access those files.
You can also restrict
the access to
a specific objects or
files of actions again
by physical location.
So for example, you want
people only located in
the USA to access
those files or you
want people only outside
the USA to access
this type of files or
a specific information.
You can also restrict the access
through transactions.
You don't want people to write on
specific files or
maybe you want people
to be able to read those files.
We need to talk about
Need to Know as well.
The Need to Know is
the justification
for somebody to request
access to a specific data.
If my specific job
or my job duties require
me to know something
and maybe that will be
the justification for me to
have access to a specific files
and directories.
In all of this, is basically a
centralized on something
that's called Single Sign-on.
It's a very what you
use on enterprises.
What this does is you
basically you login
once and the Single Sign-on
will allow you
access to websites or to
different parts
with just a single
one time login process.
There are some
authentication concepts
that we need to understand.
First of all, it's
the identity proofs.
On most systems they will ask you
for an identity and
authentication.
To put an example, the username
will be your identity proof.
That's something that
identifies you and only you.
But after identifying
yourself you need to
authenticate that you are
actually who you
are saying you are.
Basically that's done
through the password,
so the password will give
you authentication and
your username will give
you identification.
Kerberos it's a protocol used
for implementing cosine on.
There are some mutual
authentication like CHAP,
these are some type of
authentication processes that are
used to communicate to systems.
They are rely on a [inaudible].
More specifically
in active directory
we have something called
Security ID and this basically
it's a unique ID given
to objects and subjects.
We mean it's an ID
that identifies
a person and also it's
able to identify
an object meaning,
for example, a specific group
or a specific file.
Most of the operating
systems that
we know use Discretionary
Access Controls,
basically the Discretionary
Access Control
is a type of access
control that allows
the users to give access
to their own data to
whomever they want.
Meaning if I have a text file
or a sensitive data,
I'm responsible for who
is allowed to view and edit
that file because it's
my file and it's
discretionary to me to give
that access to anyone
that I want to.